seven types of reels that the Instagram
algorithm loves. And if you create these
seven types of reels, you will increase
your chances of getting more views, more
engagement, and maybe even going viral.
In today's episode, I'm not only going
to tell you the seven kinds of reels
that the Instagram algorithm loves, but
I'm also going to tell you why the
algorithm loves these kinds of reels,
and I'm going to give you examples for
each type of reel, so you can get
inspired and walk away from this episode
with post ideas in your head. And these
reels aren't just loved by the
algorithm, they're also, and more
importantly, loved by the audience. The
average Instagram user and consumer
loves these kinds of reels, engages with
them heavily, watches them over and over
again, and that is why they go viral.
There are definitely some kinds of reels
that consistently go viral, and the
algorithm loves them, but the audience
doesn't. And so, I'm going to leave them
off of the list today. There are certain
reels that really annoy people, really
frustrate people, but for whatever
reason, they kind of trick the algorithm
into boosting them and making them go
viral. There are a few of those, but
those are not going to be what I am
covering in today's episode because I am
a firm believer that you should always
prioritize the audience over the
algorithm. But before we get into this
full list, how the heck do I even know
that the algorithm loves these kinds of
reels? Well, for one, I average over 20
million views per month on my personal
Instagram account. I run the number one
Instagram school in the world called the
Insta Club hub which has had over 40,000
all-time members. And we're constantly
able to run polls, studies, and case
studies to collect data and figure out
what is actually working for people. And
I'm lucky enough to get to personally
consult with Meta and Instagram staff.
In fact, earlier this year, and I don't
think I can go a podcast episode without
shouting this out, earlier this year, I
interviewed Adam Moseri, the head of
Instagram himself. And so, if you
haven't already checked that out, I
highly recommend you do. But today,
before we even get into those top seven
Instagram reel ideas that the algorithm
loves, let me start you off with some
quick hitting value, explaining to you a
kind of reel that you think the
algorithm might love. A kind of reel
that you might be creating on repeat,
banging your head against the wall and
wondering why it's not working. But this
is a kind of reel that the algorithm
actually doesn't really love. And the
kind of reel that I'm talking about, the
kind of reel that isn't going to get you
a bunch of views, new followers, or
probably even customers, is educational,
valuable reels. Now, don't get me wrong,
there is a purpose to posting valuable
educational reels. If you follow me on
Instagram, which by the way, I recently
realized a huge chunk of my Instagram
followers don't watch this podcast. And
a huge chunk of you YouTube and podcast
viewers don't follow me on Instagram.
So, if you're not already following me
on Instagram, check me out, Brock 11
Johnson, because every single day I'm
posting helpful tips and ideas and
strategies. But often times, those
helpful tips, ideas, and strategies are
educational posts, posts that are purely
valuable. And for the last decade, so
many social media experts have been
telling you you need to post valuable
content. And unfortunately, something
that has kind of been lost in
translation over the years is that
valuable content has grown to just mean
educational content, tips, tutorials,
lessons, explainer videos. And like I
said, that stuff is still valuable. But
the problem is in today's day and age,
in today's social media environment, we
need to think of ourselves as
entertainers first. And even our
educational content needs to have some
entertainment value as well, or else
people won't watch. It's the reason that
people like Miss Rachel have become some
of the biggest content creators in the
world. Her videos are not necessarily
anything new. The education, the value,
the lessons that she's teaching in her
YouTube videos are not revolutionary.
They're not unique or new to her, but
she's found a way to make them
entertaining for children. And so she's
blown up and she's amassed the following
that she has. And so I believe that
posting educational, valuable content is
something that you probably should do
from time to time on Instagram. But if
your goal is growth, if your goal is
views, if your goal is more eyeballs,
then I would recommend doing less of
that. Let's say 20% max of your content,
one out of every five feed posts being
purely educational. And even though I
say purely educational, it should still
be some amount of entertainment or what
we call edutainment. And quickly, just
so you understand, the reason that these
educational posts don't oftent times go
viral or reach a ton of people, but they
can still be useful for building trust
and relationship and showing your value
or your credibility to your audience is
because these educational posts are
usually just getting saves. Sometimes
they get likes, sometimes they get
comments, rarely do they get shares, but
the most common form of engagement that
educational posts receive is a save. And
while back in 2020 and 2021, the
algorithm loved saves, that's not the
case anymore. And I doubt that will ever
be the case again in the future. Because
let's strip away the algorithm. Let's
strip away the computer for a second and
just think about what is a save. Like
what is actually going on when you save
a post? You hit that bookmark button and
nothing else. The post isn't being sent
to someone else, so you're not
connecting with other people. You're not
leaving a public comment, which is
creating dialogue and community. You're
kind of saving something privately for
yourself for later. And I don't know
about you, but I have hundreds, if not
thousands of posts that I've saved, that
I want to go back to that I never
actually have. And so Instagram has
learned over the course of 5 to 10 years
that saves are just not a very good
predictor of how long someone's going to
spend on the platform or how engaged
someone is going to be with the
platform. Often times we save posts for
later because we quite literally don't
have the time right now to spend with
those posts and then we forget about it
and so we don't spend more time in the
future. So posts that get a lot of saves
are rarely posts that the algorithm
loves. With all that being said, let's
get into the top seven Instagram reels
that the algorithm flipping loves in
2025 and honestly through 2026 as well.
Number one is controversial reels. Now,
I am not telling you to try to get
cancelled, to be crass, defamatory,
rude, or to talk about things that have
nothing to do with your niche. Instead,
what I want you to do is to identify
ideas or topics or popular beliefs or
common rules or best practices that
relate to your niche that you disagree
with. By simply saying unpopular opinion
and then stating your opinion, whether
it's truly unpopular or not, it grabs
people's attention. And when you post
about these controversial ideas, you're
taking a stand. you are putting yourself
outside of the middle and you are
deciding to stand firmly and say that I
believe I declare this thing. What
happens then is that the people who
agree with you, the people who are on
your side, the people who also believe
that thing, they think to themselves,
finally someone said it. Finally, this
creator believes what I believe.
Finally, somebody spoke up about what
I've been thinking for years. And so
oftentimes, the people who agree will
share your post. They'll share your post
because they're still a little bit too
scared or timid to say it themselves.
But by sharing your post either with a
friend, a loved one in their group chat,
or even to their Instagram stories, it's
kind of a way for them to say, "I
believe in this too or I support this
message or I agree with this opinion
without actually having to be bold
enough to say it themselves." And so you
get a lot of shares and the algorithm
loves that. On the other hand, when you
take a firm stance, or actually when you
take any stance on social media, there's
going to be people who disagree. I don't
care what you say. I don't care if you
say dogs are cute. There are going to be
some people on the internet who
disagree. Welcome to the internet.
Everyone disagrees with everyone all the
time and everyone is confused why
everyone else doesn't think the exact
same way that they do. And so, when
people disagree, they're going to
comment. They're going to engage with
your post. They're going to tell you how
wrong you are. And guess what? those
people are engaging with your post and
the algorithm loves that engagement.
Oftentimes then the people who agree
with you are going to hop into the
comments and they're going to argue or
have a conversation back and forth with
that person. Hopefully this ends in a
happy agreement or some sort of
resolution and both sides can agree to
disagree or maybe they can agree to
agree on something. But if nothing else,
your post is getting a lot of shares and
a whole heck of a lot of comments and
the algorithm loves that.
>> Unpopular opinion. Stop telling women on
the internet how beautiful they are and
go say it to your wife.
>> Hey babe, the women on the internet are
beautiful.
[Music]
>> Of course, where your personal line is
in terms of what is too controversial to
say is going to vary depending on who
you are. Every single person watching or
listening to this episode today is going
to have a different opinion about where
that line should be and what is too far
to talk about or what is too far to
bring up on Instagram. Again though, my
recommendation for you is to make sure
that it is on niche. And then my second
tip is to make sure that it is something
that you truly believe in. I've heard it
said that you should only post opinions
online if those are hills that you are
willing to die on. If it's something you
truly believe, post about it. If it's
something that you're just kind of still
figuring out or still forming your
opinions on or you just don't firmly
believe anything, then maybe you don't
post about that thing because you might
post about it and then really change
your mind and then you've really made
half of your audience angry for no
reason and it's just really confusing
and you got to backtrack into this whole
thing. So, if it's a hill that you're
willing to die on and it's related to
your niche, post about it. Of course,
when you do post about these
controversial topics, there will be a
small subset of your followers who are
going to unfollow you. And in my
opinion, that's a great thing. Take it
from someone who loses over 500
followers a day. Losing followers is
very normal. Oftentimes, you're going to
lose followers because they weren't real
followers to begin with. Maybe they were
robots or spam accounts and Instagram
has deleted them or they've gotten
blocked from the platform and so they're
just no longer following you. Sometimes
it was someone who followed you a few
years ago and they've just lost interest
in your content over time and so they're
going to unfollow you. And then of
course there is the rare case where
someone sees your post and they so
strongly disagree that they're willing
to unfollow you for it. And in my
opinion, like I said, that's a great
thing because rarely is someone about to
become a customer and then they end up
becoming an unfollowower. Rarely is
someone about to swipe their credit card
and then they actually end up pressing
the unfollow button. From what I've seen
in my last eight years of running a
business on Instagram, it is those
opinionated posts, the posts that truly
show your values, your mission, what you
believe in, your thoughts, your stance
on things. Those posts have a greater
ROI positive than they do ROI negative.
the number of people who go from
follower to customer from those posts
because they feel like finally they know
you, they trust you, they love you, they
believe in what you stand for, that is
usually far greater of a number than the
people who are willing to unfollow. When
you run a small business, every payment
matters. How fast it goes out, how fast
it comes in, and how much control you
have over it. And that's why I'm excited
to share with you today's sponsor, Mio.
Millio lets you pay and get paid exactly
how you choose. Even paying vendors with
a credit card when they don't usually
accept credit card. That means that you
can keep more cash in your account for
longer. Grab those early payment
discounts and rack up credit card points
along the way. Need it today? Mio has
multiple sameday payment options. Card
sameday a instant transfers all with
bank level security. And thanks to their
mobile app, you can approve, track, and
send payments anywhere you go. And
Millio can sync directly with QuickBooks
so that you don't have to worry about
manually inputting data twice. You can
also set up reoccurring payments or
approve multiple bills all in one click.
It's this easy. Add your bill by
uploading a file, taking a photo, or
syncing with QuickBooks. Choose your
payment method, pick your speed, and
you're done. Your vendor can get paid by
check or bank transfer without ever
needing a Mio account themselves. If you
want to take control of your business's
cash flow and make payments stress-free,
try Melio for free. Click the link in
the description below and schedule your
first payment today. The second kind of
real that the Instagram algorithm loves
is relatable humor. Relatable humor
oftentimes takes the place of memes or
short video clips from movies or sound
bites that are within trending audios
that you then relate to your niche. The
key to relatability is specificity.
Often times when we try to make
relatable posts, we think that we need
to water ourselves down. We need to be
more vague, more vanilla, more beige in
order to appeal to a wider audience. If
I were to ask you right now, let's
imagine that we have every single person
watching and listening to this episode
sitting in one room and I said, "Raise
your hand if you are absolutely
disgusted by vanilla, like you just hate
vanilla ice cream. I give you a bowl of
vanilla ice cream and you're going to
start throwing up." Maybe like one or
two people. It's very, very small
percentage of people. And then if I
asked you the opposite, I was like, "Who
is just obsessed with vanilla ice
cream?" If I gave you a bowl of vanilla
ice cream, you would pay $100 for it and
you'd be so excited to have this bowl of
vanilla ice cream cuz it's your all-time
favorite and you would choose that over
anything else. A couple people would
raise their hand, but 95% if not more of
the population wouldn't feel that
extreme either way because it's vanilla.
Stop making your content vanilla. When
it comes to creating relatable content,
relatable humor, include more details,
be more specific. Because when you
include those details, when you get more
specific and you include more context
and more backstory and more of those
little nuances about what happened to
you or what you're thinking or what
you're experiencing, the people who are
truly able to relate the strongest come
out of the woodworks. Those people, the
people who are like, "Oh my gosh, I
thought I was the only person in the
world who thought this way and now
you've made a post saying exactly what I
was thinking, they comment that and they
share your post and they send it to
their friend and they're like, "See, I'm
not crazy." And then they realize that
there are 10,000 other people who are
saying the exact same thing. The reality
is, even though, yes, you are your own
unique beautiful butterfly and you are
special and magical and wonderful and no
one's quite like you, we all have shared
human experiences. And so when you're
trying to make relatable humor, be more
specific rather than less specific. I'll
give you an example. If I was to make a
post about getting angry about the
algorithm and let's say I used uh the
little red angry dude from Inside Out,
the guy who's supposed to represent the
emotion of anger. And I posted that and
I was like, uh, me trying to grow a
business on Instagram. That's kind of
vague. It's kind of vanilla. It's kind
of wishy-washy. it likely wouldn't get
that many saves or shares or comments or
interactions because it can yes appeal
to anyone who's trying to grow a
business on Instagram, but it's not that
specific. But if I posted that exact
same meme and instead I changed the
caption to say something like me having
to do 17 different things at once in
order to grow my small business on
Instagram and keep up with all the
algorithm updates, meanwhile my reel
only got seven likes. Now it's specific.
Now it's hyper specific, right? And
that's what makes it more relatable.
That's what allows people to connect
with it more deeply. And when they
connect with it more deeply, they share.
And a share is the best form of
engagement on Instagram. It's what the
algorithm loves the most. And human to
human, it's how you get more humans to
see your post. So, a lot of these five
remaining real ideas that the algorithm
loves are going to be real ideas that
revolve around getting shares or
creating shareworthy content. But
relatable humor and being specific with
that relatable humor is one of the best
ways to get more shares and the
algorithm flipping loves that.
>> I work out almost every day,
almost on Mondays, almost on Tuesdays,
almost on Wednesdays.
The third kind of reel that the
Instagram algorithm loves is what I like
to call plot twist reels. Plot twist
reels are the reels that have a surprise
ending or a unexpected twist or just
something that keeps people watching
past the hook. And it's usually because
it is contradictory to what we would
expect or something is about to happen
or something just happened that we
weren't ready for.
[Music]
>> If you feed your kids frozen pizza and
chicken nuggets and other frozen foods
for dinner, you are a terrible parent. I
don't care how busy you are. Find the
time. find the time to microwave them.
It's not that hard.
>> Those kinds of reels work because they
increase our watch time. Besides shares,
the Instagram algorithm loves when you
can increase the retention on your
reels, which basically means that you
can keep people watching your reels for
longer. And the reality is most people
are seeing 10,000 posts a day. Think
about that. 10,000 posts or ads a day
across Instagram, YouTube, Tik Tok, all
these different platforms. I mean, even
right now, while you're listening to
this single episode, you might be
watching reals on your phone on the
side. You might have this playing up on
your TV right now, and you're also like
scrolling on your computer, and you have
your phone open. So, maybe you're seeing
like three or four posts all at the same
time. The moral of the story is that
we're all distracted. And so many of us
are mindlessly scrolling, mind-numbingly
doom scrolling down our feed. And so
when something defies our expectations
or has some sort of unexpected change or
twist or plot twist or surprise in it,
it grabs our attention and it makes us
sit up in our seat. And often times if
the content is good enough to get us to
watch the entire video and really grab
our attention and get us to lean
forward, that's also often times the
content that we're going to share with
someone else because we want to kind of
pass that feeling along. We want to have
our friend, our family member, or just
even the people who are watching our
Instagram stories that day. We want to
get them to have the same, oh my gosh,
kind of reaction, that surprise or shock
factor. And so those posts not only get
a large watch time or retention, they
oftentimes get a lot of shares as well.
One of the easiest and most
long-standing trends that capitalizes on
this is the put a finger down trend. The
putter finger down trend is where you
say put a finger down if and you hold up
your hand with five fingers. And then
the beginning of this trend or the the
origin of it was put a finger down if
you've ever been to Los Angeles and then
you put a finger down. Put a finger down
if you've ever been to New York and you
put a finger down. But over time, this
trend has evolved to include a really
long story, a story with a lot of
details. Again, relatability comes from
specificity. And all of this story gets
people to keep watching. And it's a
story that has a plot twist. It's a
story that has unexpected elements. And
so all you have to do is say, "Put a
finger down if and then tell the
unexpected thing that happened in your
business. Tell the story of that one
time that you weren't expecting
something to happen and then it did.
Tell a story that has some sort of plot
twist or unexpected ending. And then
just make sure at the end to actually
put a finger down to indicate that that
story happened to you. Another way that
you can do these plot twist reels is
with what I like to call hook swaps or
transitional hooks. It's basically where
you take a short snippet from a already
viral video. You put that at the
beginning of your video and then you use
what's called a match cut to seamlessly
transition from that transitional hook
into your video. For example, I'm sure
you've seen videos online of people,
let's say, kicking a soccer ball, and
the soccer ball hits the camera and then
it seamlessly transitions to the next
clip, which actually isn't on the soccer
field. It isn't filmed in the original
setting that the first video was. And
it's you like pulling your hand away
from the camera and then telling people
whatever it is that you wanted to tell
them. Now, these transitional hooks can
sometimes be hard to find. So, I created
a free library of 40 of these
transitional hooks for you. If you want
to get that, then just DM me on
Instagram with the word swap. S swap. If
you send me that message on Instagram, I
will send you the 40 free hook swaps.
It's a library of videos that you can
just add to the beginning of your own
and then seamlessly transition into your
video. It's a great way to grab people's
attention and give a little bit of an
unexpected element or a plot twist in
order to get them to keep watching. Real
idea number four that the Instagram
algorithm flipping loves is timely
content. Absolutely massive new
Instagram update was just announced by
their CEO and this is going to be one of
the biggest changes to the platform in
the last few years with the introduction
of an entirely new way to engage called
reposts. Similar to retweets on Twitter
or reposts on Tik Tok, you are now going
to be able to see someone else's public
feed post and repost it yourself. When
you repost a real on Instagram, it won't
show up as if you posted it. It's
basically a way to amplify someone
else's post or show someone's post to
your followers. So, if you're a small
business owner or a creator, getting
more reposts will directly lead to more
views. And spoiler alert, the posts that
will be most repostable are also the
posts that are most shareworthy. Also,
there will be a new tab added to your
profile that will show every post that
you have reposted all in one collection.
I'm excited about this feature. I think
it's going to be a great way to
highlight small businesses and creators.
If you're excited to like this post and
if you have the repost button, repost
this reel.
>> Oh, and if you don't, you can just share
it to your story so that more small
businesses and creators can hear this.
I'm sorry that I was recording this in
the car. This news just broke and I was
at the gas station.
Timely content falls into one of three
categories in my opinion. Timely content
is sometimes breaking news. So, if you
are in a niche or an industry where
there is breaking news or where you can
find a way to take the breaking news and
relate it to your niche, that would be a
great way to be timely. Additionally,
you might not be the person to break the
news, but you might comment on it and
talk about how the news relates to your
niche. For example, if you are in the
wedding industry and Taylor Swift and
Travis Kelce got engaged, you could be
someone who takes their engagement photo
shoot and posts about it, right? It's
breaking news and it's related to the
wedding industry. But let's say that it
was a few days later. Let's say you
missed it in those first few hours and a
bunch of other people in the wedding
industry already posted about it and
you're like, "Okay, everyone knows by
now. I'm not going to post about it 5
weeks later." You could talk about that
news and you could talk about maybe
their floral arrangements. Let's say
that you're a wedding florist and you're
going to talk about how the flowers in
their engagement photo shoot were
strategically placed. Maybe you are a
jeweler and you're going to talk about
the engagement ring and you're going to
break it down and you're going to
analyze it. Taking breaking news and
relating it to your niche either by
breaking it or by discussing it a little
bit more in depth if you aren't right in
the moment ready to break it. The second
kind of timely content is taking that
pop culture moment. So it might not be
headline news, but it's kind of what
everyone's paying attention to in pop
culture and relating that to your niche.
So for example, maybe the new season of
Stranger Things is coming out and there
is some popular hilarious meme, like
there's some funny screen grab or some
funny quote, some moment that is going
viral that is hilarious and grabbing
people's attention. you could find a way
to take that screen grab, that meme, and
relate it to your niche, thus allowing
you to kind of tap into pop culture and
relate something that a larger group of
people is interested in back to your
niche. And then the third kind of timely
content is trending audios. Now, I'm not
a huge fan of trending audios, and I
don't think that the algorithm
necessarily will reward you for using an
audio when it's at a certain size. The
quality of your content is really going
to be the dictator of whether or not the
algorithm rewards you. And really, the
algorithm is only going to reward you if
your audience is actually engaging with
the reel. But with all that being said,
there are definitely cases where you use
a trending audio. You use that popular
sound bite or that popular song before
it's overdone, before Dunkin Donuts and
every brand in the world has used it.
You're one of the first couple hundred
people or maybe even the first couple
thousand people to use the audio. And if
that's the case, then you can kind of
hop on the wave, get out ahead of it,
and actually surf and ride the wave
rather than just kind of getting
pummeled in the whitewash. Uh, all my
surfers will understand that reference.
But basically, those are the three kinds
of timely content. And all of them allow
you to do what I like to call take naps.
NAP, niche adjacent posts. It's an
acronym that is used to describe this
idea where it's still related to your
niche, but it's also bringing in
something that's adjacent to your niche.
It's bringing in headline news or pop
culture or trending audio. And thus, you
allow yourself to kind of broaden your
horizons. You allow your post to get
viewed by people who might not normally
see your posts. If I'm going back to the
wedding florist example, and you're
making that post about Taylor and
Travis's engagement photo shoot and the
flowers in it, you're likely going to
have your post seen by a lot of
Swifties. And maybe these Swifties
aren't necessarily wedding florist
shopping right now. Maybe they're not
currently engaged, but maybe they're in
a serious relationship. Or maybe they're
just going to follow you because years
from now when they do get married, they
know that they want to use you based off
of your breakdown of Taylor and Travis's
wedding. So you're basically allowing
yourself to get seen and discovered by
people who wouldn't look at your content
as like their primary love and focus,
but when they see your content, they're
like, "Oh yeah, I am interested in that.
Oh yeah, that that is someone who I
would want to follow. Oh yeah, that that
is a pretty interesting topic." And so
then they follow and they engage. And of
course, in addition to that, the reason
that taking naps and creating timely
content is so effective in the
algorithm's eyes is that it's super
shareworthy. Breaking news is arguably
the most shareworthy content on all of
social media. If you can actually be the
person to break the news or be the first
person to talk about how the news
relates to your niche, you can oftenimes
garner a ton of shares because people
are like, "This is pertinent. This is
relevant. This is newsworthy. I need to
help spread this news. I need to help
share this information." And it makes
them look good to share the news. It
makes them feel good and make them feel
like they're in the know and they're
helping out their friends and followers
by sharing your post. Additionally, of
course, if you make posts that are
related to pop culture or that are
timely in that way, those posts are very
shareworthy because people are like, I
might not normally share a Taylor Swift
thing. I might not normally share
something about florists and floral
design, but I am interested in both of
those things. And so, when there's a
post overlapping the two, suddenly like
that's my sweet spot. That's what I am
obsessed with. And then they are more
likely to share those posts. The fifth
real idea that the Instagram algorithm
loves is series. Now, let me tell you
what most people are doing wrong with
their series. They're planning out the
whole series before ever creating the
first video or they're planning on doing
a series before even making the first
video. And the reason that that is a
problem is that most of the time you
don't know what series are going to do
all that well. You don't know what
series are really going to resonate with
your audience. And so you plan on doing
a series of the seven most important
beginner tips for rock climbers, but
then by video three in the series, it's
pretty obvious to you that, oh gosh, no
one really cares. I'm my engagement is
super bad on all these videos. But then
you're like, well, do I keep going? I've
already filmed these. I've already
scripted them out. Do I stop midseries?
What do I do? So instead, what I
recommend doing is not planning series
ahead of time. never thinking to
yourself, I want to do a series on X or
Y, but instead just continuing to make
the posts that you normally would. And
if there is a post that goes viral, if
there's a post that is really popular, a
post that does really resonate with your
audience, then you can turn that into a
series. So, it's not planned. It doesn't
say part one of the series, right? You
just make the post about beginner rock
climbing tips and then that does really
well. So, then you're like, "This is
part two of my series on beginner rock
climbing tips." And then best of all,
you can use a brand new Instagram
feature that allows you to link reels
together. Basically, you can now create
playlists within your Instagram reels.
All you have to do is after posting your
reel, tap on those three dots in the
upper right hand corner and then you can
tap the button that says link a reel.
And what that will allow you to do is
basically add a button at the bottom of
this current reel that connects people
to the next one. It's a really, really
helpful feature and one that Instagram
just debuted. And so, as you know,
Instagram usually gives preferential
treatment to people who are using the
brand new features. And so, if you have
a series that is ongoing, this is a
powerful tool to create that series so
that it's easier for people to consume
because otherwise the only way for them
to consume your series is to like go to
your profile and like find each post in
the series. It's not very easy. But now
with this link a reel feature, you can
link one reel to the next to the next to
the next and you can string them all
together so that people can binge watch
all of the videos in your series. And
all of this increases the watch time.
All of this increases the amount of time
that viewers are spending with your
reel, which the algorithm loves, which
will get you more views.
>> Last week, my $5,000 ebike got stolen in
New York City.
>> It's my bike gone.
>> But then I realized the silver lining.
I'd locked the bike at 30th and 5th
while I was in a 1-hour yoga class. And
during that time, the thief cut through
my New York standard hardened steel
anti-bike theft bike lock twice. There
would have been sparks going everywhere.
They also ditched the air tags so the
cops couldn't do anything. The detective
couldn't do anything.
>> It tends to be the same people who steal
bikes, right? Kind of rotated in and out
of jail and they steal the bikes and
they get out again and they steal the
bike. There's no cameras or anything
outside that were apparent for me. So
that's kind of like a dead end. But then
I realized I have the New York standard
hardened steel anti-bike theft bike
lock. And if the lock is broken, they
buy you a new bike.
>> Can get your claim process to be paid.
>> Sandy, thanks so much for your help. I
appreciate you.
>> You're welcome.
>> I have to wait 30 days, but they said
they're going to buy me a new bike.
Follow for part three.
>> So, what are your thoughts on the
product? We're definitely interested.
Let's chat about some features that we
can add in. I just need to excuse myself
for a moment to run to the bathroom.
I'll be right back. Yeah, no worries.
>> A few moments later. Hey, sorry to
interrupt, but I just clogged the
toilet. Maybe that's something you
should tell our secretary who's sitting
three steps away from the bathroom door
instead of bringing that up during a
client meeting. Yeah, that's a great
idea.
>> A few moments later.
>> Don't worry, guys. I got a plunger and
fixed it. It was pretty stuck in there,
but I managed to get it all out with
minimal spillage.
Real idea number six will take some
coonus because real idea number six
requires you to go out into the real
world and do things with a lot of
variables. Do things out in the actual
environment that exists outside of your
home. You can't just film in your comfy
office in your home in that one corner
where you film all of your reels. Real
idea number six is street interviews.
Street interviews are a kind of reel
where, as the name says, you go out into
the street, usually in like a busy
downtown area or maybe if there's like a
premiere or some sort of like busy park
or outdoor event, something like that.
You set up your camera, you bring a
microphone, and you interview people on
the street.
>> What's the worst date you've ever been
on? I had matched with this guy. We were
about to go out for a date. Immediately
canceled on me. I was already cute. I
had like my makeup on and I wanted to go
out. So, I'm swiping swiping match with
another dude. He shows up and he's like
shorter than me, but that's like fine.
We get into this bar. He orders for me.
I hate that. And I realize very quickly
that the bar is a sex club. And I'm
like, "Okay." So, there's couches in the
back. Hard techno music is playing and
over the hard techno music, which you
can't even like hear each other over.
He's like screaming in my ear. It's like
porn moans. This is so cringe. So
uncomfortable. Can we go somewhere else?
I'm giving him like the benefit of the
doubt. So, we go to this other bar. He
orders like a hot apple cider, but it's
summer. And I'm like, "Why are you
having hot apple juice? Are you a
toddler?" And he's just going to town on
how like women are like the inferior sex
and you know, women don't deserve rights
and everything and I'm too young at this
point to realize I need to like stand up
for this moment. He's like, "Oh, do you
want to play pool?" "Yeah, I can beat
you because I'm a man and I have bigger
hands than you." And I was like, "Sir,
sit down, Frodo." There's these two
dudes already playing pool and my date
goes to the bathroom. I look at these
two dudes dead in the face and I'm like,
"Get me out of here right now. This is a
terrible first date and they're like,
"Oh my god, you're on a first date? We
thought that was like your gay best
friend." I immediately like pay my tab.
This man comes out of the bathroom. I
shake his hand and I very blatantly
leave with these two dudes and hop in
like a random cab with them, but I ended
up dating one of them for a while.
>> Excuse me. Think you look very
confident. What makes you confident?
Let's get out of this tree. I don't want
to get
>> on the phone. Hold on. What?
>> Sorry. What did you ask me?
>> What makes you confident?
>> Just being around people that see me for
who I am and don't judge me.
>> So, I have to go back to your childhood
because that's where everything comes
from. When you were growing up, what
would you say your biggest struggle was?
>> Being confident and like within myself.
Yeah. being confident within myself and
that's something that comes with
maturity.
>> What did you do to help build your
confidence
>> honestly like moving to New York makes
you very independent and being independ
independent I think inherently makes you
more confident.
>> What advice would you give to your
younger self who's watching this video?
Let's say
>> um it's okay to say no to certain things
and it's okay to be alone. Being alone
is good. It makes you grow. So in times
when you're not feeling confident,
right?
>> Yes.
>> What do you do to help you feel yourself
feel better, you know, build your
confidence up?
>> Remember just to take it day by day.
Nothing is perfect and nothing is
linear. It's always going to be there's
always going to be ups and downs in the
road, but there's always a light at the
end of the tunnel. That sounds very
cringy, but it's
>> not cringy at all.
>> Beautifully said, Victoria, I'm David.
Nice to meet you.
>> Pleasure to meet you. Now, of course,
just like any other reel, it should
relate to your niche. But the reason
that these videos do so well is that you
know as the viewer, you know, as the
person sitting at home that there was a
lot of unpredictability in this street
interview. You have no idea what the
person is about to say. And often times
when you go out on the street and you
put a camera in people's face, they say
some crazy things. Allah the hawk to a
girl. There are so many examples of mega
viral videos that have been produced
through organic moments in street
interviews. So, grab your camera, grab
your phone, grab a microphone, head out
to your nearest downtown or your busiest
area that is within driving distance of
where you're at and ask people questions
that relate to your niche. And because
of that unpredictability, people are
going to watch for longer because they
don't know what's going to happen
because they assume you don't know
what's going to happen. And so they're
going to keep watching the reel. This
increases their watch time. And if you
do get some people doing funny, crazy,
some wild answers, you get them saying
some some interesting things um on their
street interview, then it gets people
commenting, talking about those
interviews themselves or sharing the
post if it's that funny, that relatable,
or that crazy of a moment. And then
finally, last but certainly not least, I
would actually say last and easiest to
make is inspirational reels. Inspiration
is something that we need every single
day. Motivation is like food. We need it
daily to fuel us. You can't just watch
one motivational YouTube video today and
feel inspired a month from now, unless
it's just like really that good of a
video. If you do find that video, by the
way, send it to me cuz I need to watch
it myself. But motivation, inspiration
is something that we all need often. And
so you can make motivational or
inspirational posts basically daily on
Instagram and consistently get shares
because of it because we all recognize
that we constantly need more motivation
and we're constantly needing to feel
inspired and we're constantly feeling
inspired by posts we see and stories
that we hear told. Motivational and
inspirational content is highly
shareworthy. Some of my most viral posts
and most shared posts that I have ever
made are purely inspirational or
motivational messages. Now, in order to
create a really good
inspirational/motivational
message, you have to really know your
niche. You have to really know exactly
who your posts are speaking to because
that will allow you to be specific in
the motivation. Because the way that
you're going to motivate a 23-year-old
guy who is in sales is very different
than the way you're going to motivate a
67year-old grandmother who's trying to
improve her fitness so that she can play
with her grandkids for longer. Different
motivation. Sure, both parties might
need motivation, but you're going to say
different things, use different words,
highlight different struggles for each
group. So really, creating motivational
content is all about empathizing with
your target audience. Hi, I'm Brock
Johnson and I'm doing trick shots like
this.
I'm Brock and this is Brock Shots. End
of summer.
>> Siri, play some hip-hop.
>> You are white.
>> Don't do that.
>> Why?
>> Go home. Mr.
Hey, so I am currently at beautiful
Georgetown University walking around
talking to some kids about social media,
what their parents think, and Snapchat.
Hi, Brock Johnson here with Limelight's
marketing minute. We all need top of-
mind awareness for our business. Also,
quickly, another tip that I want to give
you about
an email, and actually, it's kind of a
pretty common topic, pretty common
question that I get. Producing all of
your content for Instagram can seem like
a full-time job, especially if you're
doing certainly progressing. They're
progressing at a really, really rapid
pace. So, by the time you're watching
this video, maybe I'm Brock.
>> I'm Tay.
>> We're going to get donuts.
>> Hold on.
>> Oh,
>> how do you spell donut? Hey there, my
name is Brock Johnson and welcome to my
YouTube channel, Instagram's newest
feature, broadcast channels. Today's
episode of Build Your Tribe, I'll be
explaining to you what they are, how to
use them, and most importantly, exactly
how you can make better hooks for your
reels in order to get more views and
potentially go viral.
But like I said, this is probably the
easiest kind of reel to make of all the
reels that I've talked about today
because inspirational and motivational
content is not about having high
production value, cinematic quality
editing and video production. It's about
the message. It's about the words being
said. So sometimes as simple as white
background, black text with a simple
font is good enough to get your
inspirational motivational message
across and good enough to go viral. So
with all of that being said, in summary,
if you want your reels to go viral, get
views, and if you want the algorithm to
love your views, then you need to
achieve three things. You need shares,
likes, and a high watch time, also known
as retention. You need people watching
your video from start to finish, if not
start to finish multiple times. You need
people to actually take action and
double tap on your reel. And then best
of all, you need people to share your
posts with someone else. You need people
to send your post to a friend, a group
chat, their Instagram stories, or just
send your post somewhere else because
the algorithm loves that. I did an
entire video a few weeks ago about
shareworthy content. We'll link that up
somewhere on the screen right now so you
can check that out if you haven't
watched it already. It's basically an
entire workshop master class on creating
shareworthy content. But I want to thank
you so much for watching and or
listening today. And as always, happy
networking.
[Music]